# PopulateDb
## Console application to populate SQL databases with custom filled fields.

At the time a developer is working with databases involved applications, testing those db's and the code associated is a mandatory requirement. Populating the databases with useful data similar in quantity and quality to those which will be handled in production environment is a hard time consuming task.<br>
I'm developing PopulateDb to accomplish this purpose, managing the needs of custom data generating in an easy way.

### Field Types
The generating and handling of populating data are based on different implementations of the `Field` interface.<br>
The different types of Field classes and objects are defined after the way the data are generated to fill each field.<br>
The two main types of fileds are:
<li>Text file originated content</li>
<li>Auto generated by some application methods</li>

#### FILE ORIGINATED FIELDS
The content of that fields is read more or less randomly from the lines of a text file. This type lets the user to fill data that are difficult or impossible to generate randomly or even following custom patterns, i.e: names, surnames, postal addresses, cities, product brands, etc.<br>
This type of fields should be loaded in a text file and the application will pick them randomly and load them to the value of the field.<br>
In version 1.0.0 there are 2 types of file originated fields:
<li>FileStringField: <br>
The value is filled with a random picking of the lines of a text file containing individual values. </li><br>
<li>DoubleStringField:<br>
The value is filled with two concatenated random picked lines read from a text file.<br>
Useful for purposes like people with double name, people with double surname, etc.</li><br>

#### AUTO GENERATED FIELDS
The content of that fields is generated by the several generation methods implemented within the application. All of them have a degree of randomness, more or less stuck to a user defined pattern, prebuilt patterns or some final result constraints or rules (i.e.: control character required within a numerical value).<br>
In version 1.0.0 the following auto generated fields are available:
<li>GenStringField:<br>
The value of those these fields is filled following a pattern entered by user. The fix pattern characters remains fix in the final result and the rest of characters are random generated with digits or alphabetic characters following the user's directions.</li><br>
<li>DateField:<br>
The value is a random date generated within a period selected by user.</li><br>
<li>DniField:<br>
Intended to fill spanish DNIs (National Identification Document in Spain). It handles the mandatory control character for these documents.</li><br>





